# transactions-engine
## Building and Running
Build the project using `cargo build`. To run the project `cargo run -- transactions.csv > accounts.csv`. Leaving off the `>` along with the filename will cause the program to print to the console. 

## Notes on Design and Implementation
Concurrency was not considered in this project for brevity sake. A better implementation would be a multithreaded TCP stream handling solution with a thread pool for managing thread lifetimes. This would allow for scaling and processing transaction records as they came in instead of a batch process using csv files. The use of queueing systems can be added as well to manage the in and out flow of data as part of a pipeline along with container orchestration. A solution like this would not satisfy the cli requirements for testing of this project. The current implementation will most likely be limited by the size of a single thread stack size (1 MB default on Windows and varies per linux distribution). Some care was taken to maintain short lifetimes of data to reduce the load on the system resources but with any solution may not be perfect. 

Correctness is handled fairly well. As long as the transactions are ordered chronologically this solution should produced the correct outcome based on the given specs. Sample data of input and output can be found in the root of this project in the `test.csv` and `final.csv` files respectively. If given more time unit testing should be added to ensure the correctness of function behavior. Strong typing was also used to ensure correctness. Errors are handled by consuming them, outputting them to the console, and exiting the program or exiting loop logic. No errors should break the execution of the program. 

Disputes on withdrawals do not seem to be part of the spec and therfore are not handled. The spec does not specify that disputes should only be on deposits either but the chargeback descriptions only refers to reversing a deposit and not returning funds from a disputed withdrawal. It is unclear whether this was intentional or accidental but should be noted. Some code was written to support such a scenario but was commented out to resolve unused warnings and left in the project for future use.

A more elaborate interface would help developers interact with this program. Originally the `clap` library was used to generate a help and any man page documentation to describe use of the program. However, this was forgone due to the automated testing requirements was removed for a more crude method to satisfy those requirements.